# More About Ego Boundaries(再谈自我界限)
Having proclaimed that the experience of "falling in love" is a sort of illusion(错觉) which in no way(决不) constitues(组成) real love, let me conclude by shifting into reverse and pointing out that falling in love is in fact very, very close to real love. Indeed, the misconception that falling in love is a type of love is so potent precisely because it contains a grain(格令，重量单位) of truth.


The experience of real love also has to do with ego boundaries, since it involves an extension of one's limits. One's limits are one's ego boundaries. When we extend our limits through love, we do so by reaching out, so to speak, toward the beloved, whose growth we wish to nurture. For us to be able to do this, the beloved object must first become beloved to us; in other words, we must be attracted toward, invested(投资) in and committed(承诺) to an object outside of ourselves, beyond the boundaries of self. Psychiatrists call this process of attraction, investment and commitment "cathexis(全神贯注)" and say that we "cathect(将精力集中于)" the beloved object. But when: we cathect an object outside of ourselves we also psychologically incorporate(合并) a representation of that object into ourselves. For example, let us consider a man who gardens for a hobby. It is a satisfying and consuming(支配人的) hobby. He "loves" gardening. His garden means a lot to him. This man has cathected his garden. He finds it attractive, he has invested himself in it, he is committed to it-so much so that he may jump out of bed early Sunday morning to get back to it, he may refuse to travel away from it, and he may even neglect his wife for it. In the process of his cathexis and in order to nurture his flowers and shrubs(灌木) he learns a great deal. He comes to know much about gardening-about soils and fertilizers, rooting and pruning(修剪). And "he knows his particular garden-its history, the types of flowers and plants in it, its layout, its problems and even its future. Despite the fact that  the garden exists outside of him, through his cathexis it has also come to exist within him. His knowledge of it and the meaning it has for him are part of him, part of his identity, part of his history, part of his wisdom. By loving and cathecting his garden he has in quite a real way incorporated(合并) the garden within him, and by this incorporation his self has become enlarged and his ego boundaries extended.


What transpires(发生) then in the course of many years of loving, of extending our limits for our cathexes(全神贯注), is a gradual but progressive(进步的) enlargement of the self, an incorporaton within(内部) of the world without(外面地), and a growth, a stretching(伸长) and a thinning(变薄) of our ego boundaries. In this way the more and longer we extend ourselves, the more we love, the more blurred(模糊的) becomes the distinction between the self and the world. We become identified with the world. And as our ego boundaries becomes blurred and thinned, we begin more and more to experience the same sort of feeling of ecstasy that we have when our ego boundaries partially collapse and we "fall in love." Only, instead of having merged temporarily and unrealistically with a single beloved object, we have merged realistically and more permanently with much of the world. A "mystical union" with the entire world may be established. The feeling of ecstasy or bliss(欣喜若狂) associated with this union, while perhaps more gentle and less dramatic than that associated with falling in love, is nonetheless(然而) much more stable(稳定的) and lasting(持久的) and ultimately satisfying(令人满意的). It is the difference between the peak experience, typified by falling in love, and what Abraham Maslow has referred to as the "plateau(高原) experience."


The heights are not suddenly glimpsed(一瞥) and lost again; they are attained forever.


It is obvious and generally understood that sexual activity and love, while they may occur simultaneously, often are disassociated(被分离的), because they are basically separate phenomena. In itself(本质上), making love is not an act of love. Nonetheless(然而) the experience of sexual intercourse(性交), and particularly of orgasm(性高潮)(even in masturbation(手淫)), is an experience also associated with a greater or lesser degree of collapse of ego boundaries and attendant(随之产生的) ecstasy. It is because of this collapse of ego boundaries that we may shout at the moment of climax(性高潮) "I love you" or "Oh, God" to a prostitute(妓女) for whom moments later(片刻之后), after the ego boundaries have snapped back into place(恢复原位), we may feel no shred(些许) of affection(喜爱), liking(喜欢) or investment(投资). This is not to say that the ecstasy of the orgasmic experience cannot be heightened by sharing it with one who is beloved; it can. But even without a beloved partner or any partner the collapse of ego boundaries occurring(发生) in conjunction(结合) with orgasm may be total; for a second we may totally forget who we are, lose track of self, be lost in time and space, be outside of our self, be transported. We may become one with the universe. But only for a second.


In describing the prolonged(长期的) "oneness(统一性) with the universe" associated with real love as compared to the momentary oneness of orgasm, I used the words "mystical union." Mysticism is essentially a belief that reality is oneness. The most literal(字面上的) of mystics believe that our common perception of the universe as containing multitudes(大量) of discrete(分离的) objects-stars, planets, trees, birds, houses, ourselves-all separated from one another by boundaries is a misperception(错觉), an illusion(幻觉). To this consensual(一致同意的) misperception, this world of illusion that most of us mistakenly believe to be real, Hindus and Buddhists apply the word "Maya(虚幻)." They and other mystics hold that true reality can be known only by experiencing the oneness through a giving up of ego boundaries. It is impossible to really see the unity(统一性) of the universe as long as one continues to see oneself as a discrete object, separate(分开的) and distinguishable(可区别的) from the rest of the universe in any way, shape or form(形态或形式). Hindus and Buddhists frequently hold, therefore, that the infant before the development of ego boundaries knows reality, while adults do not. Some even suggest that the path toward enlightement(启迪) or knowledge of the oneness of reality requires that we regress(退回) or make ourselves like infants. This can be a dangerously tempting(吸引人的) doctrine(信条) for certain adolescents and young adults who are not prepared to assume adult responsibilities, which seem frightening(可怕的) and overwhelming(压倒性的) and demanding(难以满足的) beyond their capacities. "I do not have to go through(经受) all this," such a person may think. "I can give up trying to be an adult and retreat from adult demands into sainthood." Schizophrenia(精神分裂症), however, rather than sainthood, is achieved by acting on this supposition(毫无根据的想法).


Most mystics understand the truth that was elaborated at the end of the discussion of discipline: namely, that we must possess or achieve something before we can give it up. and still maintain our competence(能力) and viability(生存能力). The infant without its ego boundaries may be in closer touch with reality than its parents, but it is incapable of surviving without the care of these parents and incapable of communicating its wisdom. The path to sainthood goes through adulthood. There are no quick and easy shortcuts. Ego boundaries must be hardened(变硬) before they an be softened(变软). An identity must be established before it can be transcended. One must find one's self before one can lose it. The temporary release from ego boundaries associated with falling in love, sexual intercourse or the use of certain psychoactive drugs(精神药品) may provide us with a glimpse of Nirvana(涅槃), but not with Nirvana itself. **It is a thesis(论点) of this book that Nirvana of lasting enlightenment or true spiritual growth can be achieved only through the persistent(坚持不懈的) exercise of real love.**


In summary, then, the temporary loss of ego boundaries involved in falling in love and in sexual intercourse not only(不仅) leads us to make commitments(承诺) to other people from which real love may begin but also(而且) gives us a foretaste(预示) of(and therefore an incentive(激励) for) the more lasting mystical ecstasy that can be ours after a lifetime of love. As such, therefore, while falling in love is not itself love, it is a part of the great and mysterious(不可思议的) scheme of love.
# My Understanding
* 真正的爱也是和自我边界有关的，是自我边界的放大和扩展。
* 真正的爱可以体会到和自我边界萎缩和陷入情网一样的狂喜。和陷入情网不同的是，不是和一个对象临时的、非理性的狂喜，而是和整个世界理性的，持久的狂喜。
* 性和爱经常同时发生，其实是分开的。性的狂喜，其实也是自我边界萎缩，只是一会儿。
* 印度和佛教坚持个体和世界的统一性，认为婴儿能感知真实，成人不能。所以有人想通过倒退、自我边界萎缩，来到达圣域，这是不行的，能到达的是精神分裂。因为只有先获取，才能失去。成年的自我边界时个必须的过程。
* 本书的一个论点是只有通过真正的爱的坚持不懈的联系，才能获取持久启迪的涅槃或者精神上的成长。
* 陷入情网本身不是爱，它是整个伟大而又不可思议的爱的框架的一部分。
